[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: So
now we wanna do that same kind of
check and call logic in the about.
But first,
we need to give a way to specify those.
So let's come to our template or
our about grips template.
And let's add in a couple of input boxes.
>> Kyle Simpson: So we got two input boxes
that you need to be able to set some
numbers into.
>> Kyle Simpson: So in our in init
function, this call, this function's
already starting to get long, so I'm
going to re-factor by pulling that out.
>> Kyle Simpson: Somebody
said Foo JS is wrong.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yep it does.
Good catch.
Thanks Vincent.
[LAUGH] We would have found
that eventually I'm sure.
All right so
I was pulling out that function and
instead of using an inline function.
I wanna make that it's own things
cuz I'm gonna be adding stuff to it.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's get our min and
our max out.
>> Kyle Simpson: First step before we try
to make the request is we want to do our
validation, right?
So I want to invoke
that validate function.
I wanna say if,
>> Kyle Simpson: Validate.checkMinMax.
>> Kyle Simpson: Question is, can I
share all this code that I'm writing?
Absolutely, we'll make
this available as well.
Okay.
>> Student: You're not
passing in the actual values,
you're passing in the [INAUDIBLE].
>> Kyle Simpson: You're
right I need to call.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right so if I'm
local then all I need to do is pass those
locally but if I'm doing an API,
I need jQuery to add that data on.
So I'm going to set up this ajax call with
my data is my object min, min and max max.
>> Kyle Simpson: And jQuery should take
care of packaging up this data object as
the GET parameters,
sending that along to the API call.
Of course which are server code that we've
already written, will parse that out.
If I'm not forgetting anything about
JQuery at least that's how it should work.
So we are using the exact same
validate.checkMinMax rule
set in both places.
And the only difference is in
code here is that in the DOM.
We have to deal with DOM elements and
on the server we're dealing
with request URL parameters.
So those parts we don't share.
But the part the main meat of it, the
validation rules are hidden away inside
of our validate module and we're just
going to share that thing in both places.
>> Student: Maybe minor, but
if you're doing it locally,
you want to check the min, max but
if you're doing it remotely wouldn't you
want the remote side to do the check?
>> Kyle Simpson: So
that's actually a great point.
That's a really good segue here.
Most of the time, when people write apps,
they actually want to invoke the data
validation in the browser so that they
can give an immediate response to
the user without waiting for a roundtrip.
So here we would want to
validate first in the browser,
even though we know the server
is also going to validate.
And the reason for that is, I'd rather
pay the penalty of validating twice and
letting the user get immediate feedback.
If you didn't want that, if you literally
just wanted the server to do it then
there wouldn't be any need to run it here.
You could just throw
an Ajax request against it.
But the difference then would be they'd
get immediate errors in a local case and
non immediate errors later.
>> Student: Yeah yeah I get that.
>> Kyle Simpson: So typically people do
run data validation rules in the browser.
>> Student: Your example though isn't ever
going to hit the remote side validation.
Or it will just always be true.
>> Kyle Simpson: Except from the fact,
if somebody tried to hijack my app and
pass data.
[CROSSTALK] That's why we have to.
What's that?
>> Student: Are you gonna hijack your App.
>> Kyle Simpson: We can try.
Right.
I can create a get URL that
tries it right.
But the point is we have to
validate it in both places.
The server has to always validate cuz it
can't trust that the browser did validate.
We're validating in the browser so
that we can give an immediate response.
So if we didn't correctly
pass the validation
we do wanna give an immediate
response to the user.
So what I'm actually gonna do
to give an immediate response
is I'm gonna reuse my render answer just
so I don't have to do any extra work here.
I'm just gonna reuse my render answer.
>> Kyle Simpson: And I'm gonna render my
error message directly in the same place
that that random number gets thrown into.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
a bunch of different work moving pieces.
Hopefully all of these pieces,
I'm not thinking of anything that I've
done wrong but obviously there's a pretty
good chance that something's broken.
But let's just try it.
Let's restart our server.
We only restarting our server cuz we
actually made changes to the server code.
If everything that we changed
was purely browser side.
Or template related we don't need
to restart the server at all.
We just need to refresh the browser.
Okay.
So I'll be optimistic and
close my console,
uh-oh something failed.
Probably a good sign that
something's wrong with my.
>> Student: Look on
your first [INAUDIBLE].
>> Kyle Simpson: Now I got a problem here.
[INAUDIBLE] My first shell
is my watch on my templates.
But, this is why I have a server logs
telling me that I got a problem.
What problem is it giving me?
Server line 188.
I'm missing an parenthesis.
>> Kyle Simpson: Probably a good idea to
check that server log before just assuming
that things are working so
I'm just gonna zero it out for now.
And then when I restart my server,
I'm just gonna watch the log.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, so I'm not getting
any errors thrown, that's a better sign.
Let's try to reload here.
Okay, phew!
That was an easy fix.
All right, let's go to about.
There's our input boxes.
Now we have not entered anything in yet.
And we know that these empty strings
are gonna get end up getting treated as
either zeroes or as nans depending on how
that coercion ends up happening right.
So if we pull out the value of an input
box that ends up with an empty string.
Which we know that on our number
coercion inside of our validator,
that's gonna end up coercing
the empty string to zero and zero.
So we went into it that we would expect
if I just tried it just as is we'd
expect a failure.
So everybody following me.
We'd expect to get an error message.
So let's try it,
didn't work so what did I miss?
Validate is not defined.
That's interesting.
So it's not finding my validate module.
Aah!
[LAUGH] I forgot to load it.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's try that again.
>> Kyle Simpson: We're assuming
that we should get an error here.
We didn't get an error, we got a zero.
So let's do some debugging.